Most of you have heard of
MongoDB as a dominant store for
JSON style semi-structured data.
MongoDB is very popular and
there are a number of excellent
tutorials on it on the web.
In this module we would like to discuss
a relatively new big data management
system for semistructured data that's
currently being incubated by Apache.
It's called AsterixDB.
Originally, AsterixDB was conceived by
the University of California Irvine.
Since it is a full fledged DBMS,
it provides ACID guarantees to
understand the basic design of AsterixDB,
let's consider this incomplete JSON
snippet taken from an actual tweet.
We have seen the structure of JSON before.
Here we point out that entities and
user, the two parts
in blue are nested, that means embedded,
within the structure of the tweet.
If we represent a part of the schema of
this abbreviated structure in AsterixDB,
it will look like this.
Here a dataverse is like a name space for
data.
Data is declared in terms of data types.
The top type, which looks like
a standard data with stable declaration,
represents the user portion of the JSON
object that we highlighted before.
The type below represents the message.
Now, instead of nesting it like JSON.
The user attribute highlighted in
blue is declared to have the type
TwitterUserType, thus it captures
the hierarchical structure of JSON.
We should also notice that
the first type is declared as open.
It means that the actual data can have
more attributes than specified here.
In contrast, the TweetMessage
type is declared as closed,
meaning that the data instance must have
the same attributes as in the schema.
AsterixDB can handle spatial data as given
by the point data types shown in green.
The question mark at the end of the point
type says that this attribute is optional.
That means all instances need not have it.
Finally, the create dataset actually
asks the system to create a dataset
called TweetMessages, whose type is
the just declared quick message type.
AstrerixDB which runs on HDFS provides
several options for credit support.
First it has its own query language
called the Asterix query language
which resembles the XML
credit language query.
The details of this query language
are not important right now.
We are illustrating the structure of
a query just to show what it looks like.
This particular query asks for
all user objects from the dataset
TwitterUsers in descending order of their
follower count and in alphabetical
order of the user's preferred language.
What is more interesting and distinctive
is that AsterixDB has a creative
processing engine that can process
queries in multiple languages.
For its supported language
they've developed a way to
transfer the query into a set of low
level operations like select and
join which their query
exchange can support.
Further, they've determined how
a record described in one of these
languages can be transformed
into an Asterix.
In this manner, the support hive queries,
which is expressed in like this.
Xquery, Hadoop map reduce,
as wall as a new language
called SQL++ which extends SQL for JSON.
Like a typical DB BDms,
AsterixDB is designed to operate
on a cluster of machines.
The basic idea, not surprisingly,
is to use partition data parallellism.
Each data set is divided into
instances of various types
which can be decomposed to different
machines by either range partitioning or
hash partitioning like
we discussed earlier.
A runtime distributed execution
engine called Hyracks is used for
partitioned parallel
execution of query plans.
For example, let's assume we have
two relations, customers and orders,
as you can see here.
Our query is find the number of orders for
every market segment that
the customers belong to.
Now this query need a join operation
between the two relations,
using the O_CUSTKEY as a foreign
key of customer into orders.
It also needs a grouping operation,
which for
each market segment will pull together all
the orders which will then be counted.
You don't have to understand the details
of this diagram at this point.
We just want to point out that
the different parts of the query
that are being marked,
the customer filed here has two partitions
that reside on two nodes,
NC one and NC two respectively.
The orders file also has two partitions.
But each partition is dually replicated.
One can be accessed either of nodes NC3 or
NC2 and the other on NC1 and NC5.
Hyracks will also break up
the query into a number of jobs and
then fill it out which tasks can
be performed in parallel and
which ones must be
executed stage by stage.
This whole thing will be managed
by the cluster controller.
The cluster controller is also
responsible for replanning and
reexecuting of a job
if there is a failure.
AsteriskDB also has the provision
to accept real time data from external
data sources at multiple rates.
One way is from files in a directory path.
Consider the example of tweets.
As you have seen with the hands-on demo,
usually people acquire tweets by accessing
data through an api that twitter provides.
Very typically a certain volume of tweets,
lets say for
every 5 minutes, is accumulated into
a .json file in a specific directory.
The next 5 minutes,
in another .json file, and so forth.
The way to get this
data into asterisks DB,
is to first create an empty
data set called Tweets here.
The next task is to create a feed.
That is an externally resource.
One has to specify that it's coming from
the local file system called local fs here
and the location of the directory,
the format and
the data type it's going to copy it.
Next, the feed is connected
to the data set and
the system starts reading unread
files from the directory.
Another way for AsteriskDB to access
external data is directly from an API,
such as the Twitter API.
To do this,
one would create a dataset as before.
But this time the data feed is
not on the local file system.
Instead it uses the push Twitter
method which invokes the Twitter
client with the four authentication
parameters required by the API.
Once the feed is defined it is
connected to the data set as before.